In the last video, we deployed our restful API, our back-end. Now we want to deploy the Angular application,
the front-end
and for that we'll use the CLI to build it.
Building it means taking all the Typescript code and the Angular code and compiling that to a bunch
of Javascript and HTML files,
Well one HTML file and a bunch of Javascript files that make up the application because everything
about Angular happens in the browser,
right.
It's a client-side,
it's a browser framework,
it re-renders the page we're seeing in the browser.
We can build it with Angular CLI, in the project folder,
simply run ng build and then --prod to set all the settings to production which puts the most
optimisations into place.
So this will now build your project, it can take a couple of seconds
and once it is done, it will give you a new folder.
Now here, we get an error that apiUrl does not exist
and the reason for this and that's really important is that for building for production, it doesn't use
your environment file here where you have that apiUrl but it takes the environment prod file
which makes sense because that gives you the advantage of using different settings for production and
development
and we actually need these different settings here because our development URL of http://www.localhost:3000
certainly is wrong now.
So let's add the apiUrl to the environment.prod file which is the file getting used when
you're building for production
but let's set the URL to the URL we have here on our dashboard,
so this URL we're visiting here.
You can copy that,
this is the URL of our running API,
store it here
and don't forget to add /api after it
just as you did it here for production, for development. With that, let's rerun ng build prod and now we
should be able to build this and will take this new API or this new URL and it will be included in
our code automatically due to our set up we chose in this course.
So let's wait for this to finish
and once it is finished, we will have a new folder, the dist folder
and now you need to deploy the content of that dist folder or to be precise, of the mean-course folder
in the dist folder.
So all these files, these are the files you want to deploy to your static front-end host.
So let's do that
and AWS also got a service for that, Elastic Beanstalk which we're using here is a host for dynamic
content,
so for PHP or NodeJS as we are using it. AWS also has the S3 service which is their static cloud storage
in general but which can also be used as a static host.
You create a new website here by creating a new bucket and you can choose any name you want,
though bucket names are unique globally, so you can take the name I'm using here and I will use
mean-angular-node you can use any name you want of course and simply click create, the default
settings should be fine.
This should give you the mean-angular-node bucket here,
now you can click upload and drag these files which you have in that dist mean-course folder in here
or manually select them of course. So you can also click add files, then select that dist folder and in there,
in the mean-course folder, all the files in there,
open them, click upload and now this will add them to the bucket.
Now the bucket is just a file storage and by default, it's not accessible by other people. To make it
accessible,
you need to do two more things.
First of all you need to change the permissions by setting a so-called bucket policy. Here
you can click on documentation to see some examples because we will need one specific example, you can
click on bucket policy examples here,
we need the granting read-only permissions to an anonymous user bucket policy because visitors of our
website will be anonymous and this should give them read access.
You can now copy that permission statement here,
go back and add this here to this field and replace example bucket with your bucket name,
so in my case with mean-angular-node and that of course are settings which are really only required
for AWS S3, other static hosting providers typically don't have that, S3 has it because it is
also a file storage, not just a hosting provider.
So with that added, you can click save
and now we have public access on the bucket which is correct
and now you can click on properties and enable static website hosting by clicking on that card and
simply check use this bucket to host the website
and now important, choose index.html as an index document and also and that's really important, as
an error document.
This second part is required for your Angular routes to work because if the user enters something, like
yourdomain/auth/login, that would by default be first parsed by your server.
The server doesn't know that route though
and there also is no sub-folder named auth or login,
so it would throw an error. By adding index.html as an error document,
it will then forward that error to the index.html file and will execute that file
and since that file contains your Angular app which knows its routes, the Angular router can then parse
the URL and the Angular router will understand it and render the correct component.
So this is absolutely required to ensure that your routes keep on working.
So hit save then and now the static website hosting is enabled,
now you can visit your website by going to static website hosting again and clicking that
URL
and now this should load your Angular app.
And here it is
and what's already good,
we're not finding the file,
the image which makes sense because we deleted it but what's good is that we can see the post except
for the image.
Now let's try logging in,
let's try selecting the right user here
and that was not the user who created the post but let's simply create a new post and let's see if that
file upload is working.
Let's pick an image, like spring and click save
post and now here, we're getting an error,
an internal server error, it fails to store that file on our server.
And the problem is we can see it if we inspect the error here in the network tab and then click on
response that
there's no such file or directory, backend/images and that is something we overlooked.
We have to adjust our back-end code a bit more to make sure that the image is stored correctly because
that back-end folder is now incorrect because I move that server.js file into that back-end folder
and we have to see that relative from the server.js file,
so this should now just be images, here in our multer middleware.
This should just be images just because this is where we are storing the images
now, this also has an implication for the app.js file. There were serving images statically by
also looking at back-end images.
Now this is just images now, just the images folder.
So if we save that we have to redeploy our back-end which is no problem of course, we can simply delete
the old archive,
select all back-end files and folders again and recompress them and go back to our Elastic Beanstalk
console here and let's redeploy that version, click on your app, upload and deploy, choose a new version
label, choose that new archive tag where we choose that new archive,
that new zip file where we did update the code to not look for the back-end sub-folder and let's wait
for this to update our environment and thereafter, let's again try to add a new image or add a new post.
So it's done redeploying, let's reload our MEAN application
and let's again try to upload a post here.
Now this is looking better,
there is our image,
now let's also try editing this and let's pick a different image,
the spring image
and let's update the title.
This also works, that error,
that first error is always coming from that first post which doesn't have an image because we created
that post locally and I cleared all images before deploying.
Let's now try deleting that and this also works, so this all seems to work.
Now let's switch the user to the user who hopefully created that other post
and now let's clear that too
and now we got a clear app again and we get no errors here.
So now this is working and now we successfully deployed our application to a real server.
We deployed it by deploying two different apps, the rest API and the Angular app.